## Data Visualization Final Project - Mario Kart 8 Visualizations
### Patrick Burke

My final project was a Shiny app which showed visualizations of various Mario Kart 8 statistics. This data I used was from kaggle,com, from Tarun Sunkaraneni. It is four data sets of the distinct statistics of each aspect of a Mario Kart vehicle. The character, the kart, the tires, and the glider. This data set I used I verified against the official statistics visible on the Mario Kart wiki page; I used the Kaggle data set as it was easier to read in. My purpose with this data was to try to help people see which parts of their Karts most impact their Mario Kart experience. I always have found that the visible in game charts are tiny bars, with no real numbers displaying values. This makes it hard to tell the changes between certain characters, so I intended to help display that.

The first visualization I displayed in my Shiny app was a basic bar graph displaying the statistics of the chosen combination. This bar graph clearly showed, with readable axes and variables, which kart statistics were the greatest. I chose this bar graph because it imitates the one displayed in-game, but with better principles of data visualization. This bar graph is better because it displays all of the values for each variable on the x-axis, it measures each bar clearly, and is easily readable for the viewer. This was a basic visualization to help introduce all of the data. It also included a table with the statistics below the chart to help act as a guide for the graph's display.

The heat-map I used was a method of visualization I used to try and show the different values for every single variable that is selectable. This heat map used a color scale from blue (low values) to red (high values). I also used plotly to help better show each selection, because in a large heat map often it is hard to figure out which values are which in the middle rows and columns. In this I used visualization techniques that I learned about color scales in our class. I used the blue values to represent the lower values, not only because that is the common theme, but in Mario Kart the lesser the number the slower. Blue frequently represents slow -- on a tachometer, the highest RPMs are represented by the red. From this, I chose the blue to red color scale.

My final visualization was comparing the two character combinations. Here I used the principles of comparing different bars of values. I made sure to keep the same axis for each value. Initially, I was using a stacked bar chart. This made it hard to tell the total values of each, so I moved the bars to side by side. This made it better visualization for comparing the two vehicles. Other ways I tried to make it visually better for comparison was keeping the red and blue bars, as usually those are the colors for player one and player two on video game controllors. I also made sure to always have the player 2 bar on the bottom, because the consistency made it easier to see each individual characters statistics.

In total, I used all of the different techniques on making visualizations easier for the average person, or average Mario Kart fan, to understand. The specific techniques I employed were comparing with bar charts, using color scaling, using labeling, and implimenting interactive graphs with plotly and shiny. All of these different techniques together allowed me to create a shiny app which I felt confident in and was visually pleasing



